# Machine_Learning_Objects

This repository contains some machine learning algorithms which I learnt and programmed in python using Numpy and Sci-Kit Learn. Numpy is used for mathematics and calculus part. Sci-kit learn is used to determine performance of model. All these algorithms are predictive, i.e. they predict the value or class of the object whose features are fed to the model

Linear Regression, Logistic Regression and Neural Networks are based on a similar concept. The concept has weights(matrix/matrices of numbers) which are completely dependent in the input size / number of features to be given to the model. Weights and the input features(which too are set of numbers) together in the model produce an output. Every model is first trained and tested on some known data. Training is basically looping a process. The process is to generate output from weights and input features of known data, than minimizing the difference between predicted output and actual output by updating weights using calculus instruments.

In Linear Regression and Logistic Regression, some weights are defined and these weights are updated to minimize the difference between actual output and predicted output. For Logistic Regression, an activation function is used on the output to scale output between 0 and 1.In my code, I have used Sigmoid Activation.

Nueral Networks are somewhat improved application of Linear and Logistic Regression. Neural Networks have several layers. Each layer has some number of nodes, which can be chosen. Each node is like Logistic Regression. Each node is initialized with randomized weights. Each node is fed all input features. An activation function is chosen for layers to scale the output for each node. This output of every node becomes an input features to the next layer. The last layers has nodes equivalent to the number of outputs expected. So if there are 10 classes than 10 nodes in last layer. For regression problems one node with linear activation function is used. 

K Nearest Neighbour is a simple classifiction model. In this, all the known data is graphed on an n-dimensional graph(n being number of features). A class of any obejct is determined by finding nearest neighbouring objects and then assigning the class which is majority among the nearest objects. The distance between any two object on graph is calculated by Euclidean Distance Formula.
